Hi friends in this video let us discuss about
the processing unit of the computer.
We're learning about the computer and it's three major units.
The central processing unit or the CPU
So the CPU or simply the processor is an electronic circuit
responsible for executing the instructions of a computer program
And the CPU is also called as the heart of the computer
The CPU contains three major parts.
Arithmetic and Logic Unit - ALU
The Control Unit - CU and Registers
Each unit has its own responsibility
and let us understand it one by one
First let us learn about the ALU
The Arithmetic and Logic Unit
It is responsible for Arithmetic and logical operations
such as addition, subtraction, division, modular operation, lesser than, greater than etc.
And what are registers?
The registers are high speed temporary storage areas in the  CPU.
All the operands and data must be stored in a register  before it can be processed
And the intermediate results are also stored in these registers
And finally we have the Control Unit
The control unit is responsible for controlling the whole operations.
It receives the programming instructions from the memory
and understands  the operations
and then it will ask the ALU  to perform the required tasks
And once the task is done
the control unit will transfer the result to main memory
and instruct the output device to display it
So these are the major parts of a CPU.
Now let us understand the CPU functionality using this example
Suppose the user gives the input as 3+5
And it will be converted as programming instructions
which will  be stored in the main memory
The control unit will receive the instructions now
And the operands 3 and 5 will be stored in registers
And then it will interpret the instructions one by one
And understand the operations
Here the operation that needs to be performed is addition
So the control unit will ask the ALU Unit to perform addition on 3 and 5
So ALU will perform addition operation
And store the result 8 in a register
Then the control unit moves the result to main memory
And instructs the output unit to display the result
So the result of 3+5 that is 8
will be displayed as the output
So that's all about the central processing unit and its functionality.
In the next video we will learn the applications of computers.